I think it's called the grace call processor. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, uh,
introduced last year. It's, uh, you know,
there's a bunch of measures of performance. We're talking about horses.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> it seems to outperform 368 trillion operations per second,
seems to outperform in videos,
Tesla T four system mm-hmm <affirmative> so these are just numbers.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> what do they actually mean? And real world perform? Like,
what are the metrics for you that you're chasing in, in your horse race?
Like what do you care about?
Well, first the, so the, the native language of, you know,
people who write AI network programs is PI torch. Now PI torch TensorFlow.
There's a couple others, deep.
PI torch is one over TensorFlow, which is.
Just a, I'm not an expert. Okay. I,
I know many people who have switched from TensorFlow to pie torch. Yeah.
And there's technical reasons for it. And I use both.
Both are still awesome.
Both are still.
Awesome. But the deepest love is for pie torch.
Currently. Yeah. There there's more love for that. And that, that may change.
So the first thing is when they write their programs,
can the hardware execute it pretty much as it was written mm-hmm <affirmative>
right. So by torch turns into a graph,
we have a graph compiler that makes that graph.
Then it fractions the graph down. So if you have big matrix multiply,
we turn it into right size chunks that are run on the processing elements.
It hooks all the graph up. It lays out all the data.
There's a couple mid-level representations of it.
That also simulative so that if you are writing the code,
you can see how it's gonna go through the machine, which is pretty cool.
And then, then at the bottom, it schedules kernels like math data,
manipulation data movement, kernels, which do this stuff.
So we don't have to run, write a little program to do matrix multiplier.
Cause we have a big matrix multiplier. Like there's no CDI program for that,
but that there is scheduling for that. Right? So the, the,
one of the goals is if you write a piece of pie, torch code,
that looks pretty reasonable, you should be able to compile it,
running it on the hardware without having to tweak it and,
and do all kinds of crazy things to get performance.
There's not a lot of intermediate steps, right? It's running directly.
As written like on a GPU. If you write a large matrix, multiplied naively,
you'll get five to 10% of the peak performance of the GPU, right?
And then there's a bunch, there's a bunch of people published papers on this.
And I read them about what steps do you have to do?
And it goes from pretty reasonable, well transpose one of the matrices.
So you do RO or not call 'em ordered, you know,
block it so that you can put a block of the matrix on different SMS, you know,
groups of threads. But some of it gets into little, little details.
Like you have to schedule it just so, so you don't have registered conflicts.
So the, the, the, the, they call 'em cutin ninjas
S I love it to get to the optimal point.
You either write a pre use a prewritten library,
which is a good strategy for some things,
or you have to be an expert in micro architecture to program it, right?
So optimiz step is way more complicated with the GP. So our,
our goal is if you write pie torch, that's good pie torch. You can do it.
Now there's, as the networks are evolving, you know,
they've changed from convolutional to matrix, multiply.
People are talking about conditional graphs.
They're talking about very large matrices. They're talking about Sparky.
They're talking out problems that scale across many, many chips.
So the, the native, you know, data item is a,
is a packet like, so you send a packet to a processor, it gets processed.
It does a bunch of work.
And then it may send packets to other processors and they,
and they execute and like a data flow graph kind of methodology. Got it.
We have a big network on chip and then 16,
next second chip has 16 ethernet ports to hook lots of them together.
And it's the same graph com compiler across multiple chips.
So that's where the scale comes in. So it's built to scale naturally.
Now my experience with scaling is, as you scale,
you run into lots of interesting problems. Yes. So scaling is a mountain,
the climb. Yeah. So the hardware is built to do this.
And then we're in the process of, is there a software part to this with,
with ethernet and all that? Well, the, you know, the protocol at the bottom,
you know, we send, you know, it's an ethernet fi,
but the protocol basically says, send the packet from here to there.
It's all point to point mm-hmm <affirmative> the header bit says which processor
send it to. And we basically take a packet off our, on chip network,
put an ether Hader on it, send it to the other end,
S strip the header off and send it the local thing. It's pretty straightforward.
Human human interaction is pretty straightforward too,
but we can get a million of us. We could, we do some crazy stuff together. Yeah.
Can be fun.